---
layout: post
title: How I take photos in a pond
tags: photography, guide, pond
---
Recently I have built a pond, which has attracted tadpoles.   
As a photographer, I *desperately* wanted to photograph the tadpoles in said pond. However, I do not have an underwater housing or the money to buy one (and it was suboptimal as it would make operation difficult as I cannot see the LCD), further I did not have a probe lens or the money for one. So this left me with a difficult situation for submerging my camera.  
 
Initially I tried using a glass cooking bowl and placing my camera inside. This worked for some basic top down photos in the shallows, but did not give me much depth. It was also not stable enough to support my camera - preventing me tethering my phone as a monitor. Viewing the monitor clearly is particularly important as I cannot access the viewfinder and the live-view autofocus on my EOS 7D was particularly unusable underwater - leaving me with manual focus only. 
In this dilemma, I asked online [here](https://photo.stackexchange.com/questions/136526/how-to-submerge-camera-in-pond/136529#136529) for some advice (thanks). This is a summary of my experiences from this.   

The first challenge was suerging my camera, with the simplest and most promising option from above was the fishtank method, and this is the one that I tried. I found a free fishtank of dimensions _x_x_. I placed this into my pond annd placed my camera inside. The bottom of the fishtank was about 3cm deep. :disappointed: My first solution was to add ~2kg of water (bottled) to the bottom of the tank. This kind of worked, my camera was submerged enough for me to be able to fit the entire frame underwater at 17mm aps-c (~27mm ff). However, there were some serious drawbacks: firstly, the camera was above the bottles - so my frame was only just below the waterline, secondly the water bottles were not heavy enough for proper viewing of tadpoles (unless I pushed down on the tank - *hard* - inhibiting precise operation). Further, the camera was not fixed in place - making maneuvering hard as I had to hold both the container and the camera. This led me to my current solution of using ~4kg of scews in small boxes and distributed across the fishtank, so that the tank remained balanced, allowing me to place the camera lower without risking water spillage. These could also hold the camera in place (as two smaller boxes were the exact size as to hold the camera between them), and allowed the camera to be at the bottom of the container - making it much deeper. 

This relocation to the bottom of a fishtank with all controls inaccessible led me to new problems, how to control the camera. This was particularly difficult as there is no vari-angle screen on my camera, so I was unable to view my focus and composure. Further, my camera does not have wifi and I am unwlling to use a laptop here for tethering. I had previously eliminated external monitors due to their *absurd* cost. This left me with USB tethering to my phone. This was initailly though to be implausible due to many apps being advertised as having a cost (which requires google play store to pay - so I was unwilling to use), after much research I found many identical apps on aptiode that were suitable - albeit alittle unreliable, but was a suitable price to pay. The use of a micro B USB cable and a USB c to USB A, etc dock sallowed me to connect my camera - I already had these cables. 
